Abner had been chief of Saul's army.
He pursued David in the wilderness
and supported David's rival after David became king.
So why was Abner coming to see David?
My lord, the king, make a covenant with us.
We now support you as king.
Because Jehovah has promised a salvation by means of your hand.
I will make a covenant with you.
David trusted Abner and hoped that he would now remain loyal.
But Joab saw things differently.
What have you done? You know Abner.
He came here to fool you and to get to know your every move
and find out everything that you're doing.
Careful. You know the law.
You must not hold a grudge and you must love your fellow men as yourself.
Joab's distrust grew into vengeance.
He later killed Abner.
Those who hate expect the worst.
But those who love never lose hope.